Welcome to PostOCR help!

PostOCR is a GUI written using python3 and tkinter which lets you view PDF and image files, run Tesseract OCR on these files, and detect and correct OCR errors.

PostOCR has a lot to offer. Here is a small description of some of the tools provided by PostOCR.


Open File:

The 'Open File' function allows you to open a file into PostOCR.

On clicking the button, you're prompted with a dialog box where you can select the file you want to open. Once you're done, PostOCR opens the file and let's you view the document.

PDF files are opened directly into the viewer. However, when an image file is opened, Google's OCR, Tesseract, is ran on the image in order to extract readable text. Once this is done, PostOCR converts the image file into a PDF file containing the extracted text and loads this PDF into the viewer.


Clear:

The 'Clear' option lets you clear any modification you made to the current page.


Search Text:

The 'Search Text' option allows you to search for text in the current page.

On clicking the button, you are prompted to enter the text you want to search. PostOCR then searches the entire page and marks any word that contains the text you searched for.


Extract Text:

The 'Extract Text' option allows you to draw a bounding box on the current page and get the text that you marked with the bounding box.

On clicking the button, the viewer becomes drawable. You're expected to draw a bounding box around the text you want to extract from the page. Once done, click on the 'Extract Text' button again.

On doing so, you will be prompted with the word that's closest to the bounding box you drew.


Run OCR:

The 'Run OCR' option allows you to run Google's Optical Character Reading (OCR) model, Tesseract, on the current PDF document.

This comes in handy when an image file is opened using PostOCR.

Another scenario where you may have to use the OCR is when a PDF document contains embedded images and you need to extract text from the embedded images.

On clicking the button, Tesseract is ran on the current PDF and the extracted text is stored as another PDF file which you have the option of saving in your system.


Find OCR Errors:

The 'Find OCR Errors' option runs the 'HoboNet' model to detect any OCR noise that might have been introduced when the OCR was run on the PDF file.


Fix OCR Errors:

The 'Fix OCR Errors' option runs the 'HoboNet' model to correct any OCR noise that might have been introduced when the OCR was run on the PDF file.


PDF Tool Bar:

The PDF Tool Bar gives you functions to manipulate your PDF documents.
- Use the 'Next Page' and 'Previous Page' buttons to cycle through the different pages in your PDF.
- Use the 'Last Page' and 'First Page' buttons to directly go to the pages on the extreme ends.
- Use the 'Zoom In', 'Zoom Out' and 'Fit-To-Screen' buttons to make the current page bigger or smaller.
- Use the 'Rotate' button to rotate PDF pages.
